QUESTIONS.md, before:

# Public Record of questions submitted to Ruby Central

Please only open a pull request to record questions here *after* submitting the same questions via
Ruby Central's [official feedback form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdzz3Djtp8J-oHdI7IEzwqiIH8_2O1Ldc2e1OgEvRE7RWgdBQ/viewform?ref=rubycentral.org).

For details on why a public record of these questions is important to have, see this project's [README](https://github.com/community-research-on-ruby-governance/questions-for-ruby-central/blob/main/README.md).

---

A member of the RailsConf 2025's program committee claimed via a Bluesky post that
plans for DHH's keynote was announced internally before review and selections began. 
A member of Ruby Central's board who is also a Shopify employee replied to this 
confirming that was the case, and that if PC members had a problem with that, 
they could resign from the committee. 

Can you confirm this sequence of events and provide clarification as to why things
were done in this manner? 

Additionally, can you explain what if any commitments
Ruby Central made to Shopify regarding programming for the event? In other words,
was a keynote featuring DHH a condition for sponsorship, either directly or
implicitly?

(via Gregory Brown)

--- 

What, if any, is the official relationship between Ruby Central and Shopify? Have there been any legal agreements signed? What power does Shopify hold in the relationship?

How much money does Shopify commit each year to Ruby Central? Does any money come with either explicit OR implicit expectations attached to it? 

Does Ruby Central expect to continue 'small' member donations, like the ones started by Ruby Together? How many members at each of the $50 to $5000 levels exist today? How many corporations are sponsors? 

Has Ruby Central engaged in any substantive conversations with other long-time corporate contributors to the Ruby ecosystem such as Stripe, GitHub, 37Signals, etc. What about other companies (AirBnB, Chime, many others)?

Will Ruby Central consider an explicit separation of technical and non-technical governance of projects. Does the current Board have oversight into both aspects of the organization?

Are there any additional projects planned or under consideration with respect to improving the supply chain security of the Ruby Gems ecosystem? (Including both the code and the management of infrastructure)

(via @cycomachead)

---

Ruby Central's claim of ownership on specifically the source code & respositories of the rubygems & bundler projects seems to hinge on a small piece of working in a commit: "RubyGems is managed by Ruby Central" (https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/commit/d6550cca10b776722a6cb2d960bb0e11b96670c8), which was made as part of the Ruby Together / Ruby Central merger.

However, I can find nothing in the merger contract (https://andre.arko.net/2025/09/25/bundler-belongs-to-the-ruby-community/merger-agreement.pdf) that confers "ownership" of the project to Ruby Central. Beyond that, it's not clear to me that the projects were even "owned" by Ruby Together; Ruby Together merely funded some contributors to that project. So I see no strong claim that either organise ever "owned" the project. Rather, it seems the defacto owners are the contributors.

My questions are: 

1. Do you recognise the difference between the rubygems open-source software project and the specific instance of that software running at https://rubygems.org?
2. Do you acknowledge that it would be possible for you to ensure the security of the specific instance of the software running at https://rubygems.org *without* claiming ownership of the open-source software project? (I recognise that may not be the most _convenient_ way to ensure security, but we're dealing with technicalities here)
3. What is the basis of your claim for *ownership* of the project, beyond that line in the README (which I would describe as extremely tenuous)?

I have read everything written by Ruby Central on this subject, so I'm asking some very specific questions here, and I would appreciate specific answers.

(via @lazyatom)

---

In your last (Oct 10) update you've said this: "We’ve also strengthened operational coverage by adding two new maintainers to our on-call rotation to improve resilience and response capacity."

Who are these people? Actually, could you please publish full list of people who are currently responsible or work on rubygems.org infrastructure and application, rubygems CLI, and bundler?

(via @pointlessone)

---

A certain timeline was mentioned a few times. It was cited as the primary reason to hold the vote and remove maintainers from the rubygem.org/rubygems/bundler repositories.

Could you please share more details about it? What are the dates on this timeline? Where does it come from? What is the reason it didn't allow additional flexibility to resolve all outstanding questions? What exactly is this timeline for (at first it sounded as it's funding related but later it was denied)? Have you met the goals of this timeline? What were they?

(via @pointlessone)

---

It's been a few updates since you opened a form for collecting questions but not much answers were in those updates. When do you plan starting answering the questions?

(via @pointlessone)

---

Will you publish the full list of questions you've got? For the sake of transparency it would be helpful to see how you grouped similar questions and how you understood the question along with the answer you gave.

(via @pointlessone)

---

ADD YOUR QUESTIONS HERE, PUTTING A HORIZONTAL LINE BETWEEN EACH.

Commit message:

Add questions about Ruby Core ownership xfer

QUESTIONS.md, after:

# Public Record of questions submitted to Ruby Central

Please only open a pull request to record questions here *after* submitting the same questions via
Ruby Central's [official feedback form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdzz3Djtp8J-oHdI7IEzwqiIH8_2O1Ldc2e1OgEvRE7RWgdBQ/viewform?ref=rubycentral.org).

For details on why a public record of these questions is important to have, see this project's [README](https://github.com/community-research-on-ruby-governance/questions-for-ruby-central/blob/main/README.md).

---

A member of the RailsConf 2025's program committee claimed via a Bluesky post that
plans for DHH's keynote was announced internally before review and selections began. 
A member of Ruby Central's board who is also a Shopify employee replied to this 
confirming that was the case, and that if PC members had a problem with that, 
they could resign from the committee. 

Can you confirm this sequence of events and provide clarification as to why things
were done in this manner? 

Additionally, can you explain what if any commitments
Ruby Central made to Shopify regarding programming for the event? In other words,
was a keynote featuring DHH a condition for sponsorship, either directly or
implicitly?

(via Gregory Brown)

--- 

What, if any, is the official relationship between Ruby Central and Shopify? Have there been any legal agreements signed? What power does Shopify hold in the relationship?

How much money does Shopify commit each year to Ruby Central? Does any money come with either explicit OR implicit expectations attached to it? 

Does Ruby Central expect to continue 'small' member donations, like the ones started by Ruby Together? How many members at each of the $50 to $5000 levels exist today? How many corporations are sponsors? 

Has Ruby Central engaged in any substantive conversations with other long-time corporate contributors to the Ruby ecosystem such as Stripe, GitHub, 37Signals, etc. What about other companies (AirBnB, Chime, many others)?

Will Ruby Central consider an explicit separation of technical and non-technical governance of projects. Does the current Board have oversight into both aspects of the organization?

Are there any additional projects planned or under consideration with respect to improving the supply chain security of the Ruby Gems ecosystem? (Including both the code and the management of infrastructure)

(via @cycomachead)

---

Ruby Central's claim of ownership on specifically the source code & respositories of the rubygems & bundler projects seems to hinge on a small piece of working in a commit: "RubyGems is managed by Ruby Central" (https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/commit/d6550cca10b776722a6cb2d960bb0e11b96670c8), which was made as part of the Ruby Together / Ruby Central merger.

However, I can find nothing in the merger contract (https://andre.arko.net/2025/09/25/bundler-belongs-to-the-ruby-community/merger-agreement.pdf) that confers "ownership" of the project to Ruby Central. Beyond that, it's not clear to me that the projects were even "owned" by Ruby Together; Ruby Together merely funded some contributors to that project. So I see no strong claim that either organise ever "owned" the project. Rather, it seems the defacto owners are the contributors.

My questions are: 

1. Do you recognise the difference between the rubygems open-source software project and the specific instance of that software running at https://rubygems.org?
2. Do you acknowledge that it would be possible for you to ensure the security of the specific instance of the software running at https://rubygems.org *without* claiming ownership of the open-source software project? (I recognise that may not be the most _convenient_ way to ensure security, but we're dealing with technicalities here)
3. What is the basis of your claim for *ownership* of the project, beyond that line in the README (which I would describe as extremely tenuous)?

I have read everything written by Ruby Central on this subject, so I'm asking some very specific questions here, and I would appreciate specific answers.

(via @lazyatom)

---

In your last (Oct 10) update you've said this: "We’ve also strengthened operational coverage by adding two new maintainers to our on-call rotation to improve resilience and response capacity."

Who are these people? Actually, could you please publish full list of people who are currently responsible or work on rubygems.org infrastructure and application, rubygems CLI, and bundler?

(via @pointlessone)

---

A certain timeline was mentioned a few times. It was cited as the primary reason to hold the vote and remove maintainers from the rubygem.org/rubygems/bundler repositories.

Could you please share more details about it? What are the dates on this timeline? Where does it come from? What is the reason it didn't allow additional flexibility to resolve all outstanding questions? What exactly is this timeline for (at first it sounded as it's funding related but later it was denied)? Have you met the goals of this timeline? What were they?

(via @pointlessone)

---

It's been a few updates since you opened a form for collecting questions but not much answers were in those updates. When do you plan starting answering the questions?

(via @pointlessone)

---

Will you publish the full list of questions you've got? For the sake of transparency it would be helpful to see how you grouped similar questions and how you understood the question along with the answer you gave.

(via @pointlessone)

---

By what decision making process did the Ruby Core team receive ownership of the rubygems repository?

Were other parties considered (such as the original admins?) Did the Ruby Core team sign operator agreements with Ruby Central? If not, could you explain the reasoning since it sounded like a sticking point when revoking existing access?

How many questions have you received from this form, and how many have you answered to-date?

(via @soulcutter)

---

ADD YOUR QUESTIONS HERE, PUTTING A HORIZONTAL LINE BETWEEN EACH.
